Updates docs for enabling FDA for the Endgame sensor (#3565)
elastic/security-docs: docs/getting-started/endgame-sensor-FDA.asciidoc

[[endgame-sensor-full-disk-access]]
= Enable Full Disk Access for the Elastic Endgame sensor on macOS Catalina though Monterey

:frontmatter-description: Manually install and deploy Elastic Endgame on on macOS Catalina though Monterey.
:frontmatter-tags-products: [security]
:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [how-to]
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [secure] 

> If your solution includes Elastic Endgame, it requires Full Disk Access to protect you from malware and other cybersecurity threats. Full Disk Access permission is a privacy feature that controls which applications can access your data. This means you need to manually enable Full Disk Access permission for the Elastic Endgame sensor to access these protected areas of your Mac.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On macOS, Elastic Endgame requires Full Disk Access to protect you from malware and other cybersecurity threats. Full Disk Access permission is a privacy feature that controls which applications can access your data. This means you need to manually enable Full Disk Access permission for the Elastic Endgame sensor to access these protected areas of your Mac.
```

> If your solution includes Elastic Endgame, it requires Full Disk Access to protect you from malware and other cybersecurity threats. Full Disk Access permissions is a privacy feature that controls which applications can access your data. This means you need to manually enable Full Disk Access permission for the Elastic Endgame sensor to access these protected areas of your Mac.

Author: ```suggestion
If your solution includes Elastic Endgame, it requires Full Disk Access to protect you from malware and other cybersecurity threats. Full Disk Access permission is a privacy feature that controls which applications can access your data. This means you need to manually enable Full Disk Access permission for the Elastic Endgame sensor to access these protected areas of your Mac.
```

If the prompt does not appear, enable the extension by doing the following:

. Open a Terminal application.
. Enter `kextload /Library/Extension/kendpoint.kext`. Prepend the command with `sudo` if necessary. You will receive an output that's similar to the one below:
+
`149    0 0xffffff7f82e7b000 0x21000    0x21000    co.elastic.kendpoint (7.11.0) BD152A57-ABD3-370A-BBE8-D15A0FCBD19A <6 5 2 1>`
+

> If you receive this output, the kernel extension is enabled.

Author: Add content from the "Approve network content filtering for Endgame" [section](https://security-docs_3565.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/security/master/endgame-sensor-full-disk-access-ven.html#allow-network-filter-content-ven). Also include caveat that these instructions only apply for users who are on 11+.

Author: Addressed in [e79a88e](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3565/commits/e79a88eae0769a264e5714fd880e2ea81ed85965) and [7115d24](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3565/commits/7115d2435376b99a5d3ff4666bda3709138d5762)

[discrete]
[[system-extension]]
== Approve the system extension for the Endgame sensor

> To fully protect endpoints from malware and other cybersecurity threats when using Elastic Endgame with system extensions, you must enable the system extension during installation on macOS Big Sur (11.0) and later.

Author: Notes for the steps in this section:
Update step 3 to: Click **Allow** to allow the ElasticEndpoint system extension to load.

Update step 4: Enter your username and password and click Modify to save changes.

Remove steps 5-7. 

Note to self: Ricardo will provide screenshots after I incorporate text changes.

Author: Addressed in [8e49b46](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3565/commits/8e49b46eddaf7a73a9cb2465506e1ebefd28bc62).

. Enter `kextload /Library/Extension/kendpoint.kext`. Prepend the command with `sudo` if necessary.
You should receive an output similar to `149    0 0xffffff7f82e7b000 0x21000    0x21000    co.elastic.kendpoint (7.11.0) BD152A57-ABD3-370A-BBE8-D15A0FCBD19A <6 5 2 1>`. If you receive this output, the kernel extension is enabled.

[discrete]
[[system-extension]]

> == Approve the system extension for the Endgame sensor

Reviewer 2: git won't allow me to comment on the next lines. So I just comment here. In line 60, it should be:
`you must enable the system extension during installation on macOS Big Sur (11.0) and later.`

Author: Made this change in [ca7dc58](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3565/commits/ca7dc5896f91b6541a9c2bdaa8c6b012b531795e).

--
image::images/fda/sec-privacy-pane.png[]
--
+
. Click **Allow** to allow the Endgame system extension to load.
+
--

> image::images/fda/select-fda.png[Select Full Disk Access]

Reviewer 3: Replace this image with 
`image::images/fda/allow-kernel-ext.png[Allow kernel extension]`

Author: Good catch - thanks! Resolved in [2d1674d](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3565/commits/2d1674d6f2d1ff9def4ba398af63968adb1ab3c6).

. Click the *+* button to view *Finder*. Find  `com.endgame.systemextension` and select it.
. Continue below to enable Full Disk Access for the Endgame sensor.

[discrete]
[[endpoint-endgame-sensor]]

> == Enable Full Disk Access for the Endgame sensor

Author: Ricardo will be resisting step 5 in this section.

Author: [ecca7f8](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3565/commits/ecca7f8b2a72922deb707a39c0baf091ca0eabd0) contains the input @ricardoungureanu provided via Slack.

image::images/select-fda.png[Select Full Disk Access]
--
+
. In the lower-left corner of the pane, click the *Lock button*, then enter your credentials to authenticate. 
. Click the *+* button to view *Finder*.
. Navigate to `/Library/Endgame`, then select the `esensor` file.
. Click *Open*.

> . In the *Privacy* tab, confirm that the `com.endgame.systemextension` or `esensor` file appears in the list of applications with Full Disk Access permissions.

Author: ```suggestion
. In the *Privacy* tab, confirm that the `com.endgame.systemextension` or `esensor` file appears in the list of applications with Full Disk Access permission.
```
